The Joe Rogan experience.
To me, it's all about body language and all about sort of, and this is why,
you know, I'm so into horses and dog training and stuff like that.
And horse body, let's.
Say some bears. And while you're out here, I.
Did Texas. I love Texas bears. I love you.
She's saving bears out here. She's mad at people. I'm like, whoa.
I love Texas. I love Texas. But when you, when you have Texas and West Virginia,
but you're ready to fight anyone at any time. And there are a lot,
there's an incredible amount of, uh, uh,
animal cruelty in Texas that I, that to me is against what Texas is all about.
Like putting bears in boxes. What was it called? The central capital.
It was called the Capitol Texas zoo. It's right. out here.
There's bears in cages. The ones that, uh, the Chinese, uh,
used to do the gallbladders, take them, you know, like the gallbladder,
some medicine, and they're in these cages and there's no.
Water. I mean, black bears. Is that what you're saying? I'll show you. It.
Must be a black bear. Yes. I got the name.
I know that gallbladder thing is like, it's so bad that they,
you're not allowed to. Even if you legally hunt a bear, you can't open up.
It's uh,
it's Oregon cavity because people are worried that people are shooting bears
just for their gallbladders and bridge Columbia.
The Asiatic black bear and this, uh,
capital of Texas zoo,
which is trying to say it's like rescuing them is all about the Asiatic black
bears, a species whose population is rapidly decreasing,
due to illegal hunting for its gallbladder,
which is used in Asian folk medicine.
And then you're going to put it in a box and not give it any water that me off.
And it's a USDA violation. So I go around to these like, seeing.
Cat, calling these people out publicly right now on this podcast.
I guess I just did. Didn't I, these mother, here's what you do.
This is a real problem for them. You understand that, right?
You just like opened hell's door.
It's a real problem for me because these have guns at all times. And it's,
it is a really dangerous thing to, for me to be into memory.
I did it with the giraffe and those crooks and in LA and most of it,
I do privately. Yeah. Malibu.
Out here. Like how did you find out about.
This?
I found out about it because I'm in a pretty like hardcore group of people that
try to rescue people. They try to shut down, uh, illegal behaviors, zoos,
roadside zoos, because the, and I know it was like, when he's crazy,
she loves animals. Like it gives a to me.
Once I started learning the statistics on whenever there's exotic animal
trafficking, it's usually accompanied by human trafficking.
It's all the same people.
So when you see a lion running free and Houston or lion,
private ownership of lions, tigers bears, any apex predator, there's usually,
you know, teenagers from another country in the same truck. So it's like,
it's like dog fighting. It's like, people are like, oh, it's just dog fighting.
Who cares? That's that's, what's in the front yard.
But if you see that in the front yard,
go into the basement and see what else is going on.
So that's why that's what, um,
the top three most profitable black market businesses, right?
It's arms drugs, and then humans animal trafficking.
So it's the same people, no one traffics Jaguars. And doesn't throw in a couple.
You know, what's weird. Pause and think about this for a second. Okay.
It's weird how we have, uh,
associations with animals where there's acceptable, torture and death,
and some where it's not. And with exotic animals,
we're especially sensitive,
especially sensitive to the idea of killing bears or putting bears in cages.
But if you found out the chickens are in the cage, right next door, you're like,
wow, that's a chicken factory. They're making, they're making McNuggets.
Oh you to do it.
Okay. And they're delicious. Put some honey on that. I think I know.
I think I can say why I, my, because when you see an apex predator,
Elian tiger or bear, that's so incredibly strong, you know,
how much abuse had to go into containing that animal?
Because they're so incredibly strong, you know, Michael Jackson,
I mean the in LA, Bob dot. I'm gonna say it.
Who puts chimpanzees and cages so that they don't build any muscle.
If you're seeing a chimpanzee, a lion tiger or bear in a cage, they were,
they had to, um, they gotta be on fentanyl. They're on all these drugs. Uh,
Natasha daily wrote a really amazing fentanyl. Oh yeah. The ones in Thailand.
Oh. They put them in cages like this so that they don't grow any muscle.
And any Chimp like Michael Jackson's chimps,
there were three of each because when they have the same name, when they,
well there's chubs. Yes. There was like a,
Chubb's want to Chubb's two and then a bubbles one and two,
because after a year you can't hold a chip in a tuxedo. It's going to rip your.
Face off. Just.
Beat your. So after about a year, they send it off to experiments.
There's one actually in a zoo in Armadillo, Texas, one of the chubs,
I know where all Michael Jackson's animals are like, that's, that's my hunting.
Yes.
Yeah. There were all of Michael Jackson, like.
All of that. I mean, a lot of them were sold for experiments. Oh,
elephants are kind of spread out. Yeah. One of them died for experiment.
The chimps work. Cause I mean,
Chimp experiments space out of CC quilt. Yeah.
But uh, yeah. I mean, it's a big, a lot of colleges and universities,
the ones that are waiting around for their student loans and imprisoning people
financially do a lot of experiments on college campuses.
So I don't do a lot of this publicly because I'll get murder.
And you go from living in the castle, living in the Michael Jackson,
Neverland castle to get an experiments done on you.
And you don't understand English. And you're like, what is happening?
I had the life. I had the life.
Now I'm strapped in and they're experimenting on me.
I went from being by Michael Jackson to being probed, you know,
in Texas, what the it was.
But chimps, you know, I mean, they get so strong.
They have to keep them in cages. So their muscles don't build.
They don't feed them any protein. And then they inject them with, you know,
I mean, uh, there's one, uh, university, which I'm not going to say right now.
Cause I'm like getting all my ducks in a row,
but they put Botox in their muscles so they don't develop any muscles.
Did I ever.
Tell you about the time I went to a tiger place in Thailand?
Did I tell you about this? I did. We did a bunch of animal things.
Me and my family in Thailand. We did one of them. That was really cool. We, uh,
we hung around with elephants and you fed them. And I,
I had it on my Instagram page. You give them sugarcane and you wash them.
And then if you're not riding 'em and no, you do ride them,
but they want you to ride them. They let you, you way, it was much.
It's one of those stupid hats with the cigarettes in it.
That's the away way to an elephant.
Yeah. What they have to do to get them that compliant is pretty brutal.
You know, none in this place, this place, first of all,
these animals are completely wide open and they're free ranging.
Shelter. Trust does a great job too. If they raise them from being babies.
Do that.
But they also take animals from circuses and re-introduce them to the wild.
Cause while you're walking with these elephants,
they just grab a tree and start eating it.
Like they can do whatever the they want. And they're,
they're so not intimidated by you in any way.
And the relationship that the trainers had with the elephants was love.
It was all petting, giving them sugarcane. They gave them food and they,
and they were always washing them. And when you have this,
they did it very slowly.
'Cause a lot of these elephants. If you reintroduce them to the wild,
they'll die right away. And the, all the elephants will actually kill them.
This place in Thailand, they have,
they have successfully reintroduced many to the wild.
And one of the things that they did is you don't just ride the elephant.
You have a relationship with it. Yes, that's it. So you see, they,
they bring you over,
like this is the elephant that you're going to have a relationship with and
you're gonna feed him sugar cane and wash him. So I'm handing them sugar cane.
They take it gently with their trunks, their sweets.
That's amazing. I don't w do you remember the name of this place?
Cause I always love to promote the.
Oh, we stayed in Chiang Mai and it was a hour maybe outside of that.
Not, not that far away, but the way they did it was, it was all about like,
what you paid for for that experience would go towards funds to
help these animals and reintroduce him to the wild and also get them from
circuses and rescue them from some other places. I didn't like the writing part.
I would say my mom, but everybody else wanted to do it. But my thought was like,
I just, I like feed you in a WashU. I want to be your friend.
I don't think you get on top and be like, we am writing.
That's a language elephants understand, you know? And,
and I think that the really places, which is most of them give the good ones,
a bad name, which sucks. I went to one, I went to Costa Maui, uh,
and I don't remember in Thailand where I went to one and there's, uh, you know,
you go there and everyone's riding them.
And then you look down and there's just chains between their feet. And I just,
it killed it crushed me because I thought I was going to this amazing sanctuary
because anyone can put sanctuary in front of their thing.
But I think I've heard you talk so much about, um, you know, captivity of,
you know, dolphins and whales. It's just,
when you see that and when you're like, this is just intolerable,
like these animals are not designed to be in it's prison.
You're watching this incredible thing be in prison. And you know that this,
the second it gets out could kill everyone within a 50 mile radius.
The fact that they're in this cage,
what had to happen in order to confine them that way. I mean,
what happened for someone to put you in a cage?
They'd have to shoot you with darts that, you know,
so it's so heartbreaking to see powerful animals be reduced
to a zoo exhibition.
A shelf trinket, it's sick.
In look. And a lot of animal people are crazy as.
And you know, as we say, animal people, aren't always people,
people because a lot of people that are real big and animal rescue have a lot of
childhood trauma. They were neglected.
They were abused as kids and they see something voiceless and that can't,
you know, send emails or make phone calls being abused and they go nuts.
So I don't with a lot of animal rescue people because they're not rational.
My thing is like,
let's focus on changing a law instead of trying to get every elephant out of
every zoo. Um, but, uh, you know, I think that, you know, someone like you, uh,
I think we're similar in that we see how up it is to have an apex predator in a
box.
Yeah. W w um, we went to the, the elephant thing and the elephant thing was,
it was, it actually felt good because these elephants, they,
they w they came over the top of the hill. They just showed up out of nowhere.
There's no fences. They came over the top of the hill and they come,
when they know that they're going to bring out the sugarcane and they're going
to meet these people and they're choosing to do it. And the way they meet you,
they just walk right up to you. I'm telling you, it's, it's wild.
Like they just, they bump into you.
Like they bring their face to you and you pet them, you, oh, hello,
nice to meet you. Yeah. They like being pat and.
Feed them after chimpanzee, I.
Believe will, they can paint. They might be smarter than chips. You know,
like they can, they can paint things. They can't solve complex puzzles.
Like chimps do, chimps can spell things. Chimps can do a lot of stuff,
but they remember their, uh, their loved ones, their family members for like,
they have.
Decades and decades. It kills.
Me. They've reintroduced ones after like, you know, more than 10 years apart.
And they recognize each other instantly and they run and hug and they're,
they're rubbing trunks and everything. It's wild a source. Well,
there's something.
So the closest we have to dinosaurs and you look at them and you're, you know,
and I there's this place pause arc.
I don't think they've been around that long.
Interesting. I mean, but they feel like they move. Like it is like.
Jurassic park special. There's something special. It's, Snuffaluffagus.
I mean, it's also like, you know.
The fact that something exists like that, that's so big. And yet it'll like,
if you're nice to it gentle, like, here's the thing. It's like,
you really can't keep a tiger as a pet in an open area.
But you can in Thailand with these elephants, like the,
the relationship they have with people is very different.
Like that thing just walks up to you. You can pet it.
There is not a chance in hell. You could do that with a tiger.
There's not a chance in hell.
You would let one of your friends or your children get on a tiger.
I mean, and if they do anyone touching any apex predator, that's abuse,
they have to take the Cub from the mom right away.
They have to dart the mom with the tranquilizer tick.
Because when everyone's like, I'm holding a bear, a bear Cub,
I'm holding a tire cup. It's like,
you think that the mom just willingly gave that up. No.
And then it's not getting any of the breast milk.
So they have all these auto-immune issues and they,
their spines don't develop properly. So the place that I work with in Alpine,
it's all these bears that have been in Cub petting as adults.
And they can't really walk well, they're all up.
It's once you see the aftermath of what happens with any kind of tiger,
I mean,
they have about six months and they just send them off to either get killed or
to get, uh, uh, can hunting or whatever that stuff is,
where they just put it hunt tigers, they put a tiger or a lion.
That's never been in the wild. That's only been held by humans. Definitely do.
That with lions in.
Africa and these canned hunting facilities and the lions,
he's a person who's like, Hey, what's up? And then someone shoots it.
And you're like, well, that's not hunting. That's not.
Not only that, the, the lion doesn't go very far from where they release it.
Cause it doesn't have a territory. So it doesn't know where to go.
And was like, oh, I'm about to get a big Mac from this human or sorry. They go,
that's a big Mac.
Immediately. If they see a person, they want to kill it. But the point is,
it's like, it's not really hunting.
It's not like you're going into the wild animals.
They literally let it go a day or two before the.
But you've seen Tippi Hedren and these things where they,
they bottle raised them.
So they're not going to attack someone that bottle raised them or.
And on those farms, have you ever seen, um, uh, Louie through his documentary?
I love him to have Adam on a couple of times and.
Look twice Scientology when no, he's been a couple of times. I.
Love him,
but he had a great special that he did about going to these
hunting camps in Africa,
where they raise these animals specifically to be released and hunted. And, uh,
he stayed there for a long time. Like he's so thorough. He,
he got in with this guy and got very close with this guy that was running this.
And he got him irritated to the point where the guy was like, Africa is.
And this, this guy was talking about why he did it. And he's like, it's.
And he's like, you know, these animals have.
And that he was basically explaining the only way these animals have any value
is if they're worth money to kill, right.
That's why there's high populations of them,
which is really wild because they used to be on the verge of extinction.
A lot of them,
and they've regrown their numbers substantially just because there's businesses
that are designed so that people know that's the guy.
So people can go over there and hunt.
These animals catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free.
Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expense.